gemini-mcp-server/README.md, before:

# 🤖 Gemini MCP Server

A powerful AI Customer Support Bot powered by **Google Gemini** and following the **Model Context Protocol (MCP)** standard.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9+-green.svg)
![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.104+-red.svg)
![Gemini](https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-Google%20Gemini-blue.svg)

## ✨ Features

- 🤖 **Google Gemini AI** - Fast, free, and powerful AI responses
- 🔄 **MCP Protocol** - Full Model Context Protocol implementation
- ⚡ **High Performance** - Async/await, concurrent batch processing
- 🛡️ **Rate Limiting** - Built-in protection against abuse
- 📊 **Database Integration** - Store conversations and analytics
- 🌍 **Multi-language** - Support for 9+ languages
- 🚀 **Production Ready** - Docker, health checks, monitoring
- 💰 **100% FREE** - No API costs, generous limits

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Get FREE Gemini API Key
1. Visit [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey)
2. Sign in with your Google account
3. Click "Create API Key"
4. Copy your API key

### 2. Clone & Setup
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/gemini-mcp-server.git
cd gemini-mcp-server

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Copy environment file
cp env.example .env

# Add your Gemini API key to .env
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_key_here
```

### 3. Run the Server
```bash
python app.py
```

The server will start at `http://localhost:8000`

## 📡 API Endpoints

### Health Check
```bash
GET /mcp/health
```

### Process Single Query
```bash
POST /mcp/process
{
  "query": "Hello, I need help with my account",
  "user_id": "123",
  "priority": "normal"
}
```

### Batch Processing
```bash
POST /mcp/batch
{
  "queries": ["Question 1", "Question 2"],
  "user_id": "123"
}
```

### Get Capabilities
```bash
GET /mcp/capabilities
```

## 🔧 Configuration

All configuration is done through environment variables in `.env`:

```bash
# Required
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_key_here

# Optional
DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///./mcp_server.db
RATE_LIMIT_REQUESTS=100
RATE_LIMIT_PERIOD=60
DEBUG=false
```

## 🚀 Deployment

### Railway (FREE)
1. Push to GitHub
2. Connect to [Railway](https://railway.app)
3. Add `GEMINI_API_KEY` environment variable
4. Deploy automatically

### Render (FREE)
1. Connect GitHub repo to [Render](https://render.com)
2. Create new Web Service
3. Add `GEMINI_API_KEY` environment variable
4. Deploy

### Docker
```bash
docker build -t gemini-mcp-server .
docker run -p 8000:8000 -e GEMINI_API_KEY="your_key" gemini-mcp-server
```

## 📊 Performance

- **Response Time**: ~0.5-2 seconds
- **Throughput**: 100+ requests/minute
- **Concurrency**: Unlimited concurrent batch processing
- **Rate Limits**: Configurable per client IP

## 🔒 Security

- Rate limiting per IP address
- Request validation middleware
- Environment variable configuration
- SQL injection protection
- CORS configuration

## 🌍 Multi-Language Support

Supports customer queries in:
- English (en)
- Spanish (es)
- French (fr)
- German (de)
- Italian (it)
- Portuguese (pt)
- Japanese (ja)
- Korean (ko)
- Chinese (zh)

## 📈 Database Schema

The server includes models for:
- `ChatMessage` - Store conversations
- `User` - User management
- `Tenant` - Multi-tenant support

## 🔗 Frontend Integration

```typescript
// React/TypeScript example
const response = await fetch('https://your-server.com/mcp/process', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
    'x-mcp-auth': 'your-auth-token'
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    query: userMessage,
    user_id: currentUser.id,
    priority: 'normal'
  })
});

const data = await response.json();
console.log(data.response); // AI response
```

## 💰 Cost Analysis

| Feature | Cost |
|---------|------|
| **Google Gemini** | FREE |
| **Database** | FREE (SQLite) |
| **Hosting** | FREE (Railway/Render) |
| **Rate Limits** | 15 requests/min, 1M tokens/day |
| **Total** | **$0/month** |

## 🛠️ Development

### Setup Development Environment
```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/your-username/gemini-mcp-server.git
cd gemini-mcp-server

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Copy environment file
cp env.example .env

# Run in development mode
python app.py
```

### Run Tests
```bash
# Install test dependencies
pip install pytest pytest-asyncio httpx

# Run tests
pytest
```

## 📋 TODO

- [ ] Add authentication system
- [ ] Implement WebSocket support
- [ ] Add conversation history
- [ ] Create admin dashboard
- [ ] Add metrics and logging
- [ ] Implement caching layer

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Google for providing free Gemini AI
- FastAPI for the excellent web framework
- The MCP community for protocol standards

---

**🌟 Star this repository if you found it helpful!**

**🔗 [Live Demo](https://your-demo-url.com) | [Documentation](https://your-docs-url.com)**

Commit message:

Add Hugging Face Spaces deployment for Node.js backend

gemini-mcp-server/README.md, after:

# 🤖 Gemini MCP Server

A powerful AI Customer Support Bot powered by **Google Gemini** and following the **Model Context Protocol (MCP)** standard.

![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9+-green.svg)
![FastAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/FastAPI-0.104+-red.svg)
![Gemini](https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-Google%20Gemini-blue.svg)

## 🚀 Quick Deploy to Hugging Face Spaces

This backend is configured for deployment on Hugging Face Spaces. The deployment uses the `app.py` file as the main entry point.

### Environment Variables Required:
- `GEMINI_API_KEY`: Your Google Gemini API key
- `DATABASE_URL`: Database connection string (optional, defaults to SQLite)

### Deployment Steps:
1. Fork this repository to your GitHub account
2. Go to [Hugging Face Spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces)
3. Click "Create new Space"
4. Choose "Docker" as the SDK
5. Connect your GitHub repository
6. Set the required environment variables in the Space settings
7. Deploy!

## ✨ Features

- 🤖 **Google Gemini AI** - Fast, free, and powerful AI responses
- 🔄 **MCP Protocol** - Full Model Context Protocol implementation
- ⚡ **High Performance** - Async/await, concurrent batch processing
- 🛡️ **Rate Limiting** - Built-in protection against abuse
- 📊 **Database Integration** - Store conversations and analytics
- 🌍 **Multi-language** - Support for 9+ languages
- 🚀 **Production Ready** - Docker, health checks, monitoring
- 💰 **100% FREE** - No API costs, generous limits

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Get FREE Gemini API Key
1. Visit [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey)
2. Sign in with your Google account
3. Click "Create API Key"
4. Copy your API key

### 2. Clone & Setup
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/gemini-mcp-server.git
cd gemini-mcp-server

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Copy environment file
cp env.example .env

# Add your Gemini API key to .env
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_key_here
```

### 3. Run the Server
```bash
python app.py
```

The server will start at `http://localhost:8000`

## 📡 API Endpoints

### Health Check
```bash
GET /mcp/health
```

### Process Single Query
```bash
POST /mcp/process
{
  "query": "Hello, I need help with my account",
  "user_id": "123",
  "priority": "normal"
}
```

### Batch Processing
```bash
POST /mcp/batch
{
  "queries": ["Question 1", "Question 2"],
  "user_id": "123"
}
```

### Get Capabilities
```bash
GET /mcp/capabilities
```

## 🔧 Configuration

All configuration is done through environment variables in `.env`:

```bash
# Required
GEMINI_API_KEY=your_key_here

# Optional
DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///./mcp_server.db
RATE_LIMIT_REQUESTS=100
RATE_LIMIT_PERIOD=60
DEBUG=false
```

## 🚀 Deployment

### Railway (FREE)
1. Push to GitHub
2. Connect to [Railway](https://railway.app)
3. Add `GEMINI_API_KEY` environment variable
4. Deploy automatically

### Render (FREE)
1. Connect GitHub repo to [Render](https://render.com)
2. Create new Web Service
3. Add `GEMINI_API_KEY` environment variable
4. Deploy

### Docker
```bash
docker build -t gemini-mcp-server .
docker run -p 8000:8000 -e GEMINI_API_KEY="your_key" gemini-mcp-server
```

## 📊 Performance

- **Response Time**: ~0.5-2 seconds
- **Throughput**: 100+ requests/minute
- **Concurrency**: Unlimited concurrent batch processing
- **Rate Limits**: Configurable per client IP

## 🔒 Security

- Rate limiting per IP address
- Request validation middleware
- Environment variable configuration
- SQL injection protection
- CORS configuration

## 🌍 Multi-Language Support

Supports customer queries in:
- English (en)
- Spanish (es)
- French (fr)
- German (de)
- Italian (it)
- Portuguese (pt)
- Japanese (ja)
- Korean (ko)
- Chinese (zh)

## 📈 Database Schema

The server includes models for:
- `ChatMessage` - Store conversations
- `User` - User management
- `Tenant` - Multi-tenant support

## 🔗 Frontend Integration

```typescript
// React/TypeScript example
const response = await fetch('https://your-server.com/mcp/process', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {
    'Content-Type': 'application/json',
    'x-mcp-auth': 'your-auth-token'
  },
  body: JSON.stringify({
    query: userMessage,
    user_id: currentUser.id,
    priority: 'normal'
  })
});

const data = await response.json();
console.log(data.response); // AI response
```

## 💰 Cost Analysis

| Feature | Cost |
|---------|------|
| **Google Gemini** | FREE |
| **Database** | FREE (SQLite) |
| **Hosting** | FREE (Railway/Render) |
| **Rate Limits** | 15 requests/min, 1M tokens/day |
| **Total** | **$0/month** |

## 🛠️ Development

### Setup Development Environment
```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/your-username/gemini-mcp-server.git
cd gemini-mcp-server

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Copy environment file
cp env.example .env

# Run in development mode
python app.py
```

### Run Tests
```bash
# Install test dependencies
pip install pytest pytest-asyncio httpx

# Run tests
pytest
```

## 📋 TODO

- [ ] Add authentication system
- [ ] Implement WebSocket support
- [ ] Add conversation history
- [ ] Create admin dashboard
- [ ] Add metrics and logging
- [ ] Implement caching layer

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Google for providing free Gemini AI
- FastAPI for the excellent web framework
- The MCP community for protocol standards

---

**🌟 Star this repository if you found it helpful!**

**🔗 [Live Demo](https://your-demo-url.com) | [Documentation](https://your-docs-url.com)**
